---
title: "What's wrong with keys.openpgp.org ?"
#date: 2019-07-06T15:27:17+06:00
draft: true
bg_image: "images/backgrounds/page-title.jpg"
description : "How this certificates server breaks [Phil Zimmermann](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phil_Zimmermann)'s vision.\
What are the inconsistencies introduced."
image: "images/blog/keys.openpgp.org.png"
author: "Jean-Jacques Brucker"
categories: ["keyserver", "protocol"]
tags: ["OpenPGP", "RFC4880", "GDPR", "HKP"]
type: "post"
---


### An unsolved problem

When [OpenPGP](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4880) was standardized in the late 1990, the external problem of distributing of [OpenPGP certificates](https://dept-info.labri.fr/~guermouc/SR/SR/cours/cours4.pdf) wasn't solved.
This problem seemed quite trivial, however: some HTTP or FTP resources could the job.

And this is how it begins: OpenPGP users provided a link to their public certificate, the content of which they managed manually.

But this had at least a drawbacks:

* Certificates was scattered around the Internet, making them difficult to
  find and even more, for each user, to build their own [web of trust]()

Then we started began to centralize as many certificates as possible on a ftp server, which
used to be mirrored in many countries.

This solved the first drawbacks, but created a new ones:

* OpenPGP user lost control of the availability and content of their certificate(s).

Moreover, and tha's were the f

* As it was not standardized, it was impossible to make reliable tools to retrieve last
  versions of each certificates. Then to update the [Web of Trust]() as well as
  to use revocation mechanisms.


Then HKP protocol emerged

*Road to hell is paved with good intentions.*

> At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio dignissimos ducimus qui blanditiis praesentium voluptatum deleniti atque corrupti quos dolores et quas molestias excepturi sint occaecati cupiditate non provident, similique sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollitia animi, id est laborum et dolorum fuga. Et harum quidem rerum facilis est et expedita distinctio. Nam libero tempore, cum soluta nobis est eligendi optio cumque nihil impedit quo minus id quod maxime placeat facere possimus, omnis voluptas assumenda est, omnis dolor repellendus. Temporibus autem quibusdam et aut officiis debitis aut rerum necessitatibus saepe eveniet ut et voluptates repudiandae sint et molestiae non recusandae. Itaque earum rerum hic tenetur a sapiente delectus, ut aut reiciendis voluptatibus maiores alias consequatur aut perferendis doloribus asperiores repellat.
